---
l1idx: 4
l2idx: 1
title: "Implementing Microsoft's Demented DNS Approach to Enforcing CDP for Copilot and Bing Chat"
permalink: 4_1.html
summary: "You're not crazy; MS's suggestion *is* pretty unusual"
---


## TL/DR

Microsoft provides commercial data protection (CDP) functionality for generative-AI services Copilot and Bing-chat, but the CDP function can only be enforced via policy if users are signed into Microsoft services using an "enterprise" account.  If users are signed in to MS services using a *personal* account, they are able to access the *non*-CDP versions of both services.

Microsoft suggest one (and only one) recommendation for allowing users to access the CDP-version of these services via enterprise accounts while *preventing* them from accessing the non-CDP versions via personal accounts.

It requires instantiating a new/distinct set of DNS nameservers and doing things to them that *no-one* should ever have to do to a nameserver.  Things that are, nonetheless fun to blog about.

## The *actual* "short" Take

### Microsoft's Solution

Microsoft's "Manage Copilot" page explains the solution as:

>To ensure that your users have commercial data protection when they use Copilot, you need to:
>
> - Enforce commercial data protection: Enable the Copilot service plan for your eligible users
> - Prevent use of Copilot without commercial data protection: Update your DNS configuration by setting the DNS entry for www.bing.com to be a CNAME for nochat.bing.com

and:

>For users of copilot.microsoft.com and the Copilot mobile app: To ensure that your users have commercial data protection when they access Copilot through copilot.microsoft.com and the Copilot mobile app, the solution is similar:
> - Enforce commercial data protection: Enable the Copilot service plan for your eligible users
> - Prevent use of Copilot without commercial data protection: Update your DNS configuration by setting the DNS entry for copilot.microsoft.com to be a CNAME for cdp.copilot.microsoft.com

#### This is *weird*.

"Setting the DNS entry" (for names in the microsoft.com) "... to be a CNAME..." is an extremely unusual thing for Microsoft to ask other organizations (that are not authoritative owners of the microft.com or bing.com domains) to do.  That's "novel" as in  "we don't do that for a good reason", not "novel" as in "oh cool, how come nobody thought of that before.")

### Challenges Associated with Solution

Microsoft's solution requires anyone adopting it to implement a separate/dedicated DNS resolver service along with nested, asymmetric forwarding zone definitions.  Doing so is a feasible, but extremely novel exercise.

#### Why is a dedicated DNS resolver service required?

In short, because it is impossible to create a "CNAME" record at a DNZ zone "apex", requiring anyone trying to create the specified CNAME records to actually host the "microsoft.com" and "bing.com" DNZ zones.  That would break DNS resolution for any other hostnames in those domains.

### Relevant DNS Fundamentals

#### What is a the DNS namespace / what is a DNS domain?

The DNS namespace is the set of all domain names registered with the DNS.  It is a hierarchical construct, with the root domain of "."  Child-domains are signified by prepending a properly formatted text string to the parent domain.  For example, 1st level children of the root domains include:   ".com.", ".net." and ".org."   Note that, by convention, the root domain's "." is typically omitted when domain names are written.  (E.g. ".com", ".net", ".org", etc...)

The pattern for child domain is a properly formatted text-string (ending in ".") prepended to the parent domain's name.  E.g. "bcbsnc.com" is a child domain of ".com"

#### What is a DNS Zone?

A DNS "zone" is a subset of the overall DNS namespace (".com", ".net", "bcbsnc.com", "microsoft.com", etc..) that is under consolidated administrative control.  A single DNS nameserver might be authoritative for multiple zones or just one zone.  There is not a 1:1 correspondence between DNS "domains" and "zones."  Sub-domains of a single parent domain might be administered as a single zone, or might be delegated by the parent domain's name-server to a separate name server where they exist as a separate zone.

#### What is a DNS Zone apex?

The "apex" of a DNS zone is collection of records in the zone using the name of the DNS zone itself.  A zone's apex records typically consist of SOA (source of authority) , "NS" (nameserver), and "A" (host) records.   

For example, the A records in the "microsoft.com" DNS zone will typically have a large number of IP addresses (constantly updated by microsoft.) which are hosting the web-servers microsoft.com website.   These "A" records can only accept IP addresses in the "address" field. If a user queries a DNS name and the nameserver returns an A record, the client will resolve the name to an IP address.

#### What is a CNAME record?

A "CNAME" (canonical name") record is a DNS record-type that "aliases" one DNS name to another ("canonical") name.  For example, a DNS nameserver hosting the "microsoft.com" domain could create a CNAME record aliasing "copilot.microsoft.com" to "cdp.copilot.microsoft.com"  When a device queries the nameserver to resolve "copilot.microsoft.com" the response will be that it resolves to "cdp.copilot.microsoft.com"

#### Why can't you have a CNAME record at a zone apex?

The CNAME record-type, by definition, supersedes any other record-types hosted on the same node.   So if there were an "A" record, an "MX" record, and a "CNAME" record for "hostname.com", the DNS resolver would only  return the CNAME record.  However, the DNS standards require that a zone apex host an SOA record.  If a CNAME record existed at the zone apex, no clients would ever receive the SOA record when querying the zone's apex.

Because of this, most DNS resolver implementations (most noticably, BIND) do not permit the provisioning of CNAME records at a zone apex.

####  So, why do we need a separate DNS nameserver?

We need our DNS nameservers to do two things that they physically can't do at the same time:

- Treat Microsoft's nameservers as authoritative for "microsoft.com" and "bing.com" domains for all the names in them that aren't "www.bing.com" or "copilot.microsoft.com"
- Respond (authoritatively) with CNAME records that we  populate for "copilot.microsoft.com" and "www.bing.com"
S
ince a DNS name-server can't do both  of those things, we need separate DNS servers to do each of time.  Our existing nameservers/resolvers already treat microsoft.com and bing.com correctly, so we need a new  nameserver that can host CNAME records for www.bing.com and copilot.microsoft.com.

### Asymmetric/Mismatches Scoping of Zones

The new nameservers are configured to authoritatively host the entire bing.com and microsoft.com domains, but we only populate those zones with CNAME records (listing "www" as an alias for canonical-name "cdp" in the bing.com zone, and "copilot as an alias for canonical-name "cdp.copilot" in the microsoft zone.)

Our enterprise nameservers and recursive resolvers, on the other hand, are configured to explicitly forward only "www.bing.com" and "copilot.microsoft.com domains" to the new nameservers.

