---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 3
title: "Symmetric paths across ECMP links"
permalink: 1_3.html
summary: "Abstract"
---

This a novel BGP routing-policy framework that provides the ability to enforce *symmetric* paths when multiple equal-cost paths are present between two endpoints.  It uses administratively defined KVP tags (in large-community attributes) to describe policy-relevant properties of routers originating and propagating routes.  Those tags are then used as policy primitives in route-map configurations that implement the logic of the novel(?) path selection algorithm introduced here.

## Context / problem statement

More often than not, when we design a network with multiple equal-cost paths, we intend for those paths to be used, well... equally.  The baseline behavior of most Ethernet/IP networks when presented with an ECMP forwarding decision is to use a hash function that transforms a four-tuple (src/dst IP address, src/dst transport-protocol port#) set of values taken from the packet being forwarded into small integer, in a range equivalent to the number of equal-cost paths available.  This mechanism ensures that *consistent* link-selections are made for packets that are part of the same "flow".

It does *not* however, ensure that the packets of a flow that are moving in "opposite direcitions" (A to B, vs B to A) take the *same* path as each other.  Because source and destination of the packet's 4-tuple are reversed, the hashing algorithms are likely to choose different paths for A-to-B and B-to-A packets.  This is not cause for concerns in many contexts, but it is a *significant* concern when stateful inspection services are present in multiple locations across the end-to-end path.  

In traditionally-segmented enterprise networks, stateful inspection services (a firewall, for example) are deployed at the perimeter of each network security zone.  In this paradigm, traffic moving *between* zones **must** be inspected by a firewall, and traffic moving *within* a single zone does *not* need to be inspected.  Historically, stateful inspection services have had a relatively operational footprint with regards to tracking (you guessed it!) the *state* of connections that it is processing.  As a result, when firewalls (and the like) are deployed in a resilient manner, that resiliency usually comes at the cost of:
  - Support for only active/standby (or all-active clusters with low maxima for number of cluster members)
  - Requirement for relatively low latency (site-level geographic proximity) between cluster members

As a result, enterprises tend to deploy stateful services such as firewalls in HA pairs on a per "site" basis.  Asymmetric flows through ECMP networks create distinct problems in the following situations:
- Network security zones are extended across geographic sites
- Per-site instances of stateful-services are deployed at the perimeters of those zones

In this situation, a specific path (traversing a specific set of firewalls) had to be explicitly chosen as part of the network design process and a variety of point solutions were required to force that path.  In the absence of route-tagging, these solutions involved maintaining prefix-lists for use in route-maps, with the same prefix-lists being implemented on multiple independently managed devices, multiplying configuration complexity and overhead.

## The proposed framework

This framework has three main elements:

### A novel(?) path-selection algorithm
  - Configured/deployed consistently across the routing domain
  - For use as a tie-breaker when multiple equal-cost paths are present
  - That applies standard logical operators when evluating the following attributes of ECMP prefixes:
    - A numeric value uniquely identifying the "site" at which a prefix is originated
    - A number value uniquely identifying the "security-zone" at which a prefix is originated
    - The number of stateful-services hops that the prefix has been propagated through *at the site-of-origin*
    - Numeric values uniquely identifying the "site" and "security-zone" of the router that is executing the algorithm (forwarding packets)
  - Guaranteeing that when multiple equal-cost paths are present, the selected path from A to B and the selected path from B to A traverse the *same* instances of any stateful inspection services

### A BGP large-community schema for required KVPs
  - Originating "site" of prefix
  - Originating "zone" of prefix
  - Stateful-hop-count of prefix

### Templated route-map configurations
  - Implementing the logic defined in the path-selection algorithm
  - With no for per-prefix configuration overhead

## Additional material

Two GNS3 virtual-lab topologies and device configurations (Arista cEOS based) are provided.  The first demonstrates the emergence of asymmetric path problems in the use-case under consideration.  The second lab modifies the first lab by applying a reference implementation of this routing framework.