---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 4
title: "The Recommendations"
permalink: 1_2_4.html
summary: "Towards a better tomorrow..."
---
I reached the following conclusions after applying to analysis in the previous sections to my current experience in a mid-sized enterprise and previous experience in IT-outsourcing/managed-service-provider network architecture roles.

## Suggested Architectural Best Practices for MTU in enterprise networks

#### L3 MTU/MRU must be consistent across an entire IP subnet 

The heterogeneity of hardware, OS, and software vintages across an enterprise IT footprint in combination with the downright infantile degree of support for PMTUD-functions in many SDN routing functions *guarantee* that there will be PMTUD blackhole pockets througout any enterprise network.  Without intra-subnet MTU/MRU consistency, packets sent by hosts with larger MTUs *will* be silently dropped.

- This includes traffic between "workload" devices on the same subnet
  - If the sending host's MTU is higher than the receiving host's MRU.
- This also includes traffic received from a remote subnet by a router on the destination subnet
  - If the router/gateway's local-subnet MTU is higher than the MRU of the destination host on the local subnet

#### A Binary (standard/large) MTU schema should be preferred across the enterprise

Different operating systems, hypervisors, and physical network hardware have extremely heterogeneous capabilities in regards to L2 and L3 MTU/MRU.  To support every permutation of maximum MTU value would result in *dozens* of extra subnets per hosting/zone

The optimal balance of network-workload performance and operational overhead and complexity can be achieved by standardizing on two MTU/MRU schemas for each network hosting environment
- A "standard MTU" schema, in which network-attached workload utilizes a 1500-byte L3 MTU.
- A "large-MTU" schema, in which network-attached workload utilizes a larger L3 MTU value that is differentiated based on the properties of the network itself 
  - Those properties include the capabilities of the network transport nodes (in terms of largest supported MTU) as well as the presence of any additional encapsulating protocols used on the underlay network

The binary model introduces the minimal degree of additional operational overhead in provisioning additional netorks, but also achieves the majority of the available benefit of jumbo-frames/large-MTUs.  As illustrated by the chart in the Jumbo Frames earlier jubmo-frames page, a TCP session on a network with an MTU of even 5480 bytes has a maximum throughput of 21.9gbps on a network with 20ms RTT latency, and 10.9gpbps on networks with 40ms RTT latency.  On a nework with 8ms RTT latency, throughput capacity is a whopping 54gbps, and it's 109gpbs at 4ms of RTT latency.


#### DHCP delivery of MTU values is preferred

Utilizing a workload-hosting model in which network-attached devices received instructions from the network itself with regards to the appropriate MTU value would reduce the likelihood of ad-hoc MTU configuration changes on individual devices from creeping into the environment.

#### PMTUD must be explicitly enabled and facilitated on all networks

Platform limitations as well as the presence of of connectivity to networks outside of an enterprise's administrative control *guarantee* that MTU mismatches will occur.  When they do occur, several different iterations of "path MTU discovery" (PMTUD) can help mitigate its impact.  Each PMTUD mechanism has its own limitations, and an overall "defense in depth" strategy with regards to PMTUD is optimal.

## Corresponding Suggested Best Practices for Low-level Network Design

- All devices' network interfaces (Layer 2 and Layer 3) MRUs must be greater than or equal to their MTUs 
- Any devices sharing a layer-2 broadcast domain must have mutually compatible L2 MTU/MRU values.
- All devices on a common IP subnet must have mutually compatible L3 MTU/MRU values
- All routing devices attached to IP networks must generate ICMP PTB messages when they receive a packet that is too large too transmit out their egress interface and has the DF bit set.
- All devices that route or switch traffic must forward ICMP PTB packets when they are received. 
- All devices attached to IP networks must support PMTUD by responding to ICMP PTB messages by lowering their path-MTU as per the received value
- All devices attached to IP networks should support PLPMTUD 
