---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 2
l4idx: 4
title: "Jumbo Frames"
permalink: 1_2_2_4.html
summary: "They showed up, and made everything better, and also messed everything up"
---
## What are jumbo frames?
The Ethernet II specification defines a 1518 byte frame format.  The most recent 802.3-2015 specifications define a mechanism for defining an MTU of up to 2000 bytes (adding multiple layers of VLAN/TOS tagging to the 18-byte Ethernet II headers).  Modern implementations of Ethernet often include a feature commonly referred to as "jumbo frames", which is not formalized within the IEEE 802.3 standards family.

9000-bytes is the generally used value for the number of payload bytes in an Ethernet jumbo frame (hence, the corresponding IP MTU), with corresponding Ethernet frame sizes of 9014, 9022, or as high as 9216 bytes.  Vendor documentation is often inconsistent with regards to references to jumbo frame support as either the maximum Layer-2 frame size or the maximum Layer-2 payload size (the value to use for an associated IP interface's MTU.)

Many enterprise networks utilize jumbo-frame capabilities where beneficial, so as to increase efficiency of network operation.

## Advantages of Jumbo Frames
### Larger MTUs have a positive correlation with increased TCP throughput (under certain conditions)

<details markdown=block>
<summary markdown=span>"Table of Maximum TCP throughput for various latency</summary>

| TCP Segment Size* Latency |    1460   |    2920   |    5840   |    8760   |
|:-------------------------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|:---------:|
|            1ms            | 116.8gbps | 233.7gbps | 467.2gbps | 700.8gbps |
|            4ms            | 29.2gbps  | 58.4gbps  | 109.6gbps | 175.2gbps |
|            8ms            | 14.6gbps  | 29.2gbps  | 54.8gbps  | 87.6gbps  |
|            12ms           | 9.7gbps   | 19.5gbps  | 36.5gbps  | 58.4gbps  |
|            16ms           | 7.3gbps   | 14.6gbps  | 27.4gbps  | 43.8gbps  |
|            20ms           | 5.8gbps   | 11.7gbps  | 21.9gbps  | 35.0gbps  |
|            40ms           | 2.9gbps   | 5.8gbps   | 10.9gbps  | 17.5gbps  |
|            80ms           | 1.4gbps   | 2.9gbps   | 5.4gbps   | 8.8gbps   |

*TCP segment size is assumed to be IP MTU minus 40 bytes for TCP headers.

</details>

### MTU sizes are inversely correlated with CPU utilization on sending/receiving hosts
- A larger MTU means more data to be transported in fewer packets (per total payload data).
- Fewer packets means less CPU cycles spent parsing packet headers (per total payload data).
   - Calculating Ethernet and TCP CRC values
   - Validating MAC and IP addressing
   - Etc...

## Dis-advantages of Jumbo Frames
- Lack of universal standard frame size makes integration difficult

## Why ~9,000 bytes?
The functional upper boundary for jumbo-frame size is dictated by the 802.3 Ethernet frame format.  Specifically, the 4-byte "frame check sequence" (FCS) that trails the payload section of each Ethernet frame.  The FCS field is a "cyclical redundancy check" (CRC) which uses a one-way hashing function to validate that the data in the remainder of the Ethernet frame was received correctly.  When a host receives an Ethernet frame, it runs the CRC calculation on the Ethernet frame (up to the FCS portion), and then compares its calculated value to that of the FCS value in the received frame.  If the values match, the frame is assumed to have been transmitted correctly.

Because the Ethernet FCS field is four-bytes long, the maximum length frame-size that it can validate is 11,455 bytes.

Correspondingly, network transport of storage traffic does (or did, at one point) provide a lower threshold for achieving maximum benefit from jumbo frames.  The preponderance of 8,192-byte block sizes on physical file systems (and their corresponding delivery as "blocks" by the NFS protocol) is significant here.  An Ethernet frame with an entire NFS-on-TCP-on-IP payload carrying the contents of an 8,192 byte block would be approximately 8,500 bytes in size.

How the industry arrived at ~9,000 bytes as the happy medium between 8,500 and 11,455 unknown to this author.