---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 2
l4idx: 7
title: "Path MTU Discovery"
permalink: 1_2_2_7.html
summary: "If two endpoints have different MTU values; they can detect the difference and adjust accordingly"
---

In "the old days", a host sending an IP packet to a host on a non-local subnet was required to use the *lower* of either:  576-bytes; or the MTU of the Layer-3 interface it was using to transmit the packet.

This was an extremely convservative approach, and ensured that no hosts were ever sending packets larger than the MTU of the receiving host's receiving interface.  As RFC1191 notes, though:

> A host sending datagrams much smaller than the Path MTU allows is wasting Internet resources and probably getting suboptimal throughput.  Furthermore, current practice does not prevent fragmentation in all cases, since there are some paths whose PMTU is less than 576.

That same RFC introduced Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD), a mechanism which allowed two endpoints (*not* on the same subnet) to detect (and take advantage of the) "effective MTU for sending", that is:  the *lowest* MTU of all the nodes in the transit path.  (AKA, the "path MTU.)  If hosts can correctly infer the path MTU to a specific destination, they can take better advantage of available bandwidth by sending the largest packets that don't require fragmentation.

The word "correctly" does a lot of heavy lifting in that sentence, though.

# RFC1191 - Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD)

The mechanism for path MTU discovery (PMTUD) defined in RFC1191 requires specific behavior from both endpoints in an IP flow as well as as all transit nodes in that same path.  Specifically:

## Sending Nodes

- Must initialize connections to any non-local hosts using the MTU of their own transmitting Layer-3 interface as the path MTU.
- Must set the "don't fragment" (DF) bit in packets that they transmit to "1"  (i.e. "do *not* allow this packet to be fragmented")
- Must respond to any ICMP "datagram too big" messages that they receive by reducing the current path MTU
   - Reducing it to match the "next-hop MTU" value specified in the ICMP datagram-too-big message

## Transit Nodes

- Must generate ICMP datagram-too-big messages when they receive an IP packet with the DF-bit set to 1, and with a size greater than the MTU of the egress interface they would otherwise use to forward the packet.
   - The destination of the ICMP message must be the source of the IP packet the triggered the ICMP message
- Must forward any ICMP datagram-too-big messages that they receive

## Limitations

- Not all nodes generate ICMP datagram-too-big messages when they should
- Not all nodes will forward ICMP datagram-too-big messages


# RFC4821 - Packetization Layer Path MTU Discovery (PLPMTUD)

RFC4821 introduced a PMTUD mechanism that operates directly at the packetization layer, allowing two endpoints to directly infer the correct path MTU, without relying on intermediary transit nodes to signal the endpoints using ICMP packets.

In broad strokes, PLPMTUD calls for the transmitting endpoint's packetization layer to "probe" for the PMTU value by sending increasingly large packets and "noting" the size of the largest packet it was able to send (again, with the DF bit set) and receive an acknowledgement for.  PLPMTUD is often referred to as "PMTUD blackhole discovery", and may either augment or fully replace the behavior of RFC1191 PMTUD.  It changes the expected behavior of a TCP implementation, but does not introduce any changes to the underlying TCP protocol.

Linux and MS Windows operating systems have both supported PLPMTUD in their native TCP implementations for quite some time now.  (20+ years for Linux!)

PLPMTUD is, however, *not* enabled by default in either operating system's TCP implementation.

# RFC8899 - Packetization Layer Math MTU Discovery for Datagram Transports (DPLPMTUD)

RFC8899 describes a mechanism for implementing PLPMTUD in applications built on *datagram* protcols (such as UDP) which do *not* implement the transport features required to implement PLPMTUD.  The strategy requires the PLPMTUD functionality to be implemented by each individual application, rather than by the transport-protocol.
