---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 2
l4idx: 3
title: "Whate *are* MTU and MRU?"
permalink: 1_2_2_3.html
summary: "This is what all the fuss is about!"
---
## What is MTU?
The "maximum transmission unit" (aka "MTU") is defined in the Internet Protocol (IP) as "the maximum sized datagram that can be transmitted through the next network."  The "next network" in this context refers to the "next" network heading downward/southward/vertically through the layered network-services stack, which is also the path to the "next" IP network westward/horizontally.  

The upshot of all this is, that a properly configured IP interface on a device will have an MTU value (either implicitly, or explicitly configured) that is equal to or smaller than the maximum payload-capacity (not total frame-size!) of its associated Layer-2 network.

For example, the Ethernet II standard specifies a maximum frame size of 1518 bytes, which includes 18 bytes of Ethernet frame headers, and 1500 bytes of payload.  Because of this, an appropriately configured IP Layer-3 interface which is bound to an Ethernet II Layer-2 interface will have an MTU of 1500 bytes at maximum.  A smaller MTU is permissible, and may even be desired, if there is an additional layer of encapsulation used somewhere downstream on the network.  IP requires a minimum MTU of 576 bytes.

The term "MTU" is often used ambiguously, sometimes referring to the IP protocol's maximum datagram size, and sometimes in reference to other network layers and standards, making productive discussion of the issue often difficult.

## What is MRU?
The "maximum receive unit" (aka "MRU") is the inverse of the "MTU."  It refers to the maximum sized datagram that can be received on the ingress interface.  MRU is not a formally defined concept within the IP protocol or Ethernet standards, but is a practical property of real-world implementations of IP and Ethernet networks.   Many networking equipment vendors allow for explicit configuration of MRU values on Layer-2 interfaces, while many operating-system network drivers will implement an implicit MRU that is equivalent to the explicitly configured MTU.  Still others will have "invisible" MRUs that may be larger than the interface's configured MTU, and can only be ascertained through trial and error.  

