---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 1
title: "Context and Problem Statement"
permalink: 1_2_1.html
summary: "An introduction to and analysis of issues related to MTU in enterprise networks"
---
## Context
Enterprise networks utilize a broad array of encapsulating network protocols. Quite often, fundamental enabling protocols are Ethernet and IP.  Modern Ethernet switches universally support jumbo frames, with minor variations in maximum frame size.  Modern enterprises often utilize VLAN, VXLAN, and GENEVE encapsulating protocols within their data-center networks, which add additional bytes of encapsulating protocol headers that eat away at effective Layer-3 MTU values in that environment.  Wide-area network services are often consumed from a variety of carriers, with heterogeneous support for jumbo frames.  Connectivity to public-cloud service-providers often traverses gateway constructs with their own aribitrary MTUs  (AWS Transit Gateways, for instnace, have any an MTU of 8500 bytes)
- When devices on the same IP network are configured with different MTU values, performance can be severely impacted.
- When overlay networks are deployed on top of underlay networks, and the MTU of the underlay network is not sufficiently larger than that of the overlay network, performance can be severely impacted
- Existing design practices in many enterprise networks does not adequately account for the two preceding statements, creating unwanted risk of performance impact at the application layer due to unexpected behavior at the network layer

## Problem Statement
Due to inconsistencies in vendor documentation and enterprise design/deployment practices, devices in and on our enterprise networks often utilize a wide array of MTU values, which may, in some cases, result in inefficient network utilization (due to artificially limited packet sizes), or packet loss and degraded application performance.

- What guiding and platform-specific principals should we use in establishing IP and Ethernet MTU and MRU values?
- What explicit practices should we adopt to conform with these principals?






   