---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 3
title: "Symmetric paths across ECMP"
permalink: 1_3.html
summary: "Abstract"
---

This article describes a novel BGP routing-policy framework that provides the ability to enforce *symmetric* paths for source/destination-inverted flow-pairs when multiple equal-cost paths are present between two endpoints.  It uses administratively defined KVP tags (in BGP large-community attributes) to describe policy-relevant properties of routers that originate and propagate routes.  Those tags are then used as policy primitives in route-map configurations that implement the logic of the novel(?) path selection algorithm introduced here.

### Context

The use of stateful-inspection services (typically network firewalls) at network-security zone perimeters introduces a functional requirement for symmetric routing of traffic between two endpoints.  That is to say, the path for endpoint(1) to endpoint(2) must traverse the *same* network firewall as the path for endpoint(2) to endpoint(1).

In traditionally-segmented enterprise networks, traffic moving *between* zones **must** be inspected by a firewall, and traffic moving *within* a single zone does *not* need to be inspected.  Due to the high capacity tax associated with state synchronization between members of a firewall cluster and the requirement for LAN-scale latency of synchronization traffic, firewall instances are typically deployed in resilient pairs a a single site.

If an enterprise wishes to host workload in the same security zone at multiple sites though, difficulties arise when a given flow crosses both site *and* zone boundaries.  In this scenario, optimal forwarding behavior has historically been extremely difficult to achieve and is typically only *approximated* by choosing which design objectives to compromise.

### The Framework

This framework uses three high-level design elements to solve the design challenges described above.

- The "transit" network security zone
- The use of BGP large-community attributes to tag routes at origination and propagation as an alternative to ip prefix-lists as policy primitives
- A novel mechanism for path selection that guarantees congruent path selection for flows between two endpoints (src/dst-inverted flows of those two endpoints).
