---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 3
l3idx: 2
l4idx: 3
title: "The 'Site' Property becomes 'Locale'"
permalink: 1_3_2_3.html
summary: "In which we further generalize.  Again."
---

## 'Sites' become "locales"

We previously defined "site" as a group of nodes on the network that are within the same metropolitan area as each other.  As discussed in the preamble, this is a relatively arbitrary distinction, and one that largely boils down to nodes that are "close enough" that we prefer traffic between them stay within that "site."

Also previously discussed is that fact that (at least part of) what we're modeling here is the round-trip latency of the data-plane path that an edge in the graph represents.  The model that we started with 

As so-far constructed here, the "site" property that we are using is somewhat analogous to round-trip-latency.  (The "closer" an edge is to the root of the "site" hierarchy, the higher the latency of the real-world network connection it represents.)   However, instead of providing a quantitative measurement of latency, it instead provides a measure of "hierarchical depth."  

The role that we want this property of edges to actually play in our network is essentially to define a subset of nodes that we prefer a path

## Edge Labels


Edge labels *also* provide a unique identifier for each fork in the site hierarchy, as well as an indicator of whether the labeled edge is present in one, or in two different levels of the site hierarchy. 

The "site" property of edges is also updated with an implicit "root" at the top of the site hierarchy (also "0").  Similarly to the implicit root of the SPZ hierarchy, this presents on the graph only as a prepended value of "0." to the "site" property of each edge, and exists to provide "headroom" for representation of disjoint site hierarchies.

The implicit root of the site hierarchy is a(n implicit) node, connected to an (implicit) edge that is connected to each site node at the root/top of *our* graph's site hierarchy.

Edge labels are constructed as follows
- Each edge has a "scale" property consisting of a decimal-point delimited sequence of octets in decimal notation.
- The first octet is always "0", representing the nominal/implicit "root" of the SP zone hierarchy.

- Labels are formatted as decimal-point delimited decimal octets, each beginning with "0."
- Each non-zero octet (read left-to-right) represents a level of the site hierarchy
  - E.g.:  In "0.n.m.0", the first "0" represents the implicit root of the site hierarchy, and
    - "n" represents an instance of the graph-local "top"/root level of the site hierarchy (the WAN, in this exercise)
    - "m" represents an instance of the graph-local 2nd-level of the site hierarchy  (one of three workload-hosting sites, in this exercise.)
-  

- All edge labels begin with "0."  ()
  - Edge



...



