---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 3
l3idx: 2
l4idx: 2
l5idx: 1
title: "Path enumerations"
permalink: 1_3_2_2_1.html
summary: "Like a jigsaw puzzle with eight different right answers"
---

A primary focus of our analsysis will be whether an effective/managable policy framework for symmetric pathing is viable for all, some, or none of the designs/topologies we have contemplated up to this point.  In this page, we will formalize those design options and enumerate the expected BGP RIF/FIB behavior for each.

We will consider topologies with permutations of the following design elements:
- Firewall instantiation/rules-of-inference
  - A single (HA pair or cluster) monolithic/multi-zone firewall per-site pattern
  - A single (HA pair or cluster) firewall per-site/per-zone pattern
- Inter-zone routing pattern
  - The (monolithic) firewall routes traffic directly between zones with*out* a BGP "hop" along the way  (single-VRF firewall)
  - The (monolithic) firewall routes traffic directly between zones *with* a BGP "hop" along the way (multi-VRF/internal-transit-zone firewall)
  - The firewall *only* routes traffic between the transit-zone and attached workload-zone.


In the first, firewalls are instantiated per-zone, and traffic between zones is routed on an explicitly instantiated transit-zone routing function.

{% capture details %}
{% include drawio-embed-addSVG.html drawiolink='./pages/1/3(ecmp-symmetric)/framework-algorithm-1-a.drawio.svg' drawiozoom='.75' %}
{% endcapture %}
{% capture summary %}Show/hide diagram{% endcapture %}{% include details.html %}

In the preceding diagram, two workload-hosting network security zones have been deployed at each of two sites.  Each of those zones is extended between sites across the WAN.  In addition, a "transit zone" has been extended across the WAN between the two sites.

The three best (and equal cost) paths between site-1/zone-2 and site-2/zone-3 are illustrated above, and the AS-path of each of those paths is listed in the boxes at the bottom.

In the second topology, monolithic multizone per-site firewalls are deployed and are capable of routing traffic directly between zones 

{% capture details %}
{% include drawio-embed-addSVG.html drawiolink='./pages/1/3(ecmp-symmetric)/framework-algorithm-1-b.drawio.svg' drawiozoom='.75' %}
{% endcapture %}
{% capture summary %}Show/hide diagram{% endcapture %}{% include details.html %}


## Initial Analysis

In the first  topology, inter-site/inter-zone flows traverse three equal-cost paths in both ("A-to-B" and "B-to-A") directions.
- Path "A" traverses the zone-2 FW and zone-3 FW in site-2  (and no firewalls in site-1)
- Path "B" traverses the zone-2 FW and zone-3 FW in site-1  (and no firewalls in site-2)
- Path "C" traverses the zone-2 FW in site-1 and the zone-3 F in site-2

Paths A and B both traverse firewalls at one site only, while path C traverses firewalls at both sites 1 and 2.  From an optimization perspective, path C is marginally preferable to paths A and B because it splits the firewall capacity consumption across the two sites.

In the second topology, there are only two equal-cost paths.  Path A traverses the site-1 firewall and path b traverses the site 2 firewall.  From an optimizaiton perspective, nothing recommends one path over the other.

