---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 3
l3idx: 1
l4idx: 1
title: "Initial Design Iteration"
permalink: 1_3_1_1.html
summary: "Inter-site connectivity is limited to a single security-zone, which becomes a de-facto transit-zone."
---

## Design elements

The initial design iteration included the following elements:
  - Two workload-hosting sites (sites 1/2)
    - Sites selected for their "goldilocks" geo-proximity.  
      - Far enough away to host resilient workloads for each other during even the most extreme failure modes.  
      - Close enough together that they can both run active workloads
        - Site-level failure induces "degraded capacity" instead of "enterprise-wide failure" and monolithic recovery
  - Three VRFs for workload-hosting subnets (network security zones 1/2/3)
  - All zones are present at each site.
  - A single HA FW pair is present in each DC, with a "leg" in each security zone
  - Inter-data-center connectivity is provisioned for zone "A" only
  - eBGP sessions are established between the firewall and each of the three workload VRFs at each site

## Graphical depiction of design
This design is depicted in the following diagram

{% include drawio-embed-addSVG.html drawiolink='./pages/1/3(ecmp-symmetric)/casestudy-1-1a.drawio.svg' drawiozoom='1.5' %}


## Routing behavior of design

With eBGP sessions between the firewalls and zone VRFs at each site, as well as the zone-1 VRFs at each site peering to a zone-1 "WAN" vrf, each VRF and firewall has a predictable path to every other VRF, with AS-path-length providing a sufficient metric.  For traffic that is local to a single site, the path is optimal.   For traffic moving into/out of either zone 2 or 3 *and* moving between sites, the path is decidely sub-optimal.
  - Two workload-hosting sites (sites 1/2)

## Gaps / Limitations

This design iteration was sub-optimal in the following regards:
- Inter-site/intra-zone traffic for zones 2 and 3
  - Traversed firewalls at site 1 and at site 2
    - Desired behavior is to traverse *no* firewalls
  - Had a transport path that included zone 1
    - Desired behavior was for traffic to only be present in workload-hosting security zones if the traffic's source or destination was present in that zone


These gaps are illustrated in the following figure, illustrating the path taken for traffic from hosts in Site-1/Zone-3 to Site-2/Zone-3.

{% include drawio-embed-addSVG.html drawiolink='./pages/1/3(ecmp-symmetric)/casestudy-1-1b.drawio.svg' drawiozoom='1.5' %}


## Retrospection

The initial design iteration fulfilled the core functional requirements, but at the expensive of sub-optimal pathing.  Subsequent design iterations were expected to close that gap.