---
l1idx: 1
l2idx: 2
l3idx: 3
l4idx: 2
title: "Same-subnet MTU mismatches"
permalink: 1_2_3_2.html
summary: "Shame.  Shame, shame, SHAME!"
---
If you've been knocking around the networking-techncology space for too long, you're probably holding two mutually exclusive ideas in your head at once:
- "All hosts on the same broadcast-domain should have identical MTUs configured"
- "It's OK for us to configure our routers interfaces on a network with jumbo-frames enabled, and not require *all* workload to have jumbo frames enabled

Those can't *both* be true.  *This* page explains why the first one is (and the second one isn't.)

## Same subnet MTU mismatches 

If two devices in the same IP subnet have non-equal MTU values, there is a very-real risk that the device with the larger MTU value will send an IP datagram/packet encapsulated in a Layer-2 frame which the other device regards as "too long" and discards without processing it.

For example, if a switch is configured with a 9000-byte L3-MTU, and a connected load-balancer is configured with a 1500-byte L3-MTU, what would happen if the switch tried to send a 9000-byte IP packet  (with an Ethernet frame size of 9018 bytes) to the load-balancer?

The short answer is: we don't know.

The longer answer: it really depends on what the load-balancer's Layer-2 interface regards as the maximum Ethernet frame size and what the load-balancer regards as the Layer-3 interfaces maximum receive unit.   Unfortunately, many platforms don't provide a clear indication of whether an "MTU" setting applies to Layer-2 or Layer-3 encapsulation, and often will not provide any indication as to what the L2 and L3 maximum receive units are.   For instance, our hypothetical load-balancer may have a network-interface card installed that does not support "jumbo frames", in which case the NIC will probably just drop the received frame as a "layer-2 error" (if we're lucky, the driver will provide a specific counter for "oversized frame errors.")   Or, the load-balancer NIC may support jumbo-frames, but that feature may not be enabled in the driver.  Likewise, the load-balancer will have a maximum receive window, which may (or may not) be visible to the load-balancer's administrators, and may (or may not) be identical to the load-balancer's configured MTU.


In the worst-case scenarios though, the device with the lower MTU/MRU is going to *silently* drop large packets received from the device with the larger MTU.  When that happens, it creates a condition referred to as a PMTUD blackhole, breaking PMTUD, and resulting in various degrees of application performance degradation across the network.  (If you are *lucky* the device receiving the oversized frame/packet *might* increment an interface counter for oversized frames received.)

If the application in question is using UDP for transport, the application will generally "break" quite abruptly.  (It will just stop getting data when the "big packet" gets sent and get stuck there.)  If the application is using TCP for transport, the TCP algorithm will *eventually* reduce the maximum segment size when the "too-big packet" remains un-acknowledged, and all of the data is likely to *eventually* get transferred, but TCP throughput will suffer drastically.
